okay good afternoon evening good morning
whatever time it is for you
welcome to the GS core dev team weekly
sync it is April the 29th it's 2019 it's
very nice to have you if you are here
please could you put your name on the
attendees list on the hackpad I will
place the link in the chat now I may
take it today is Jacob thank you for
volunteering and what happens now well
basically we go through a round of what
I did last week what I'm currently
blocked on and what I'm going to be
doing this week to sit at we could all
update ourselves after we've got mats
we'll have some time for questions and
if you are on across teams you are not
on the J escorting but you have an
update that you'd like to show of us and
please add your updates at the bottom of
the list and we will hopefully if we
have time good time to to talk to you
and you can share your update all right
English case if everyone's ready let us
get going so first on the list is me
what have I done since last week gosh my
list was really empty for some reason so
I don't think I did anything but I put
down something so it looks like I was
busy but anyway so finally finally okay
I've been ill for like two and a half
maybe three weeks so it's been horrible
but I finally find me finalized the
queue to a chaos I've transferred them
to the spreadsheet I recorded a video
today that is kind of done and dusted
for this this quarter so we can just get
on with it which is good finally and
I've also been working on a quartet
called it M Plex which is a JavaScript
implementation of M Plex using async
iterators it's towards the async is
rated async/await endeavor and it's
basically the bottom the very bottom of
the stack and hopefully everything else
can kind of build on top of it but what
implicates stream multiplexer so you use
one stream but you can actually have
lots of streams
interacting over that just that one
stream which is great so initials tests
it looks to be around 20% faster than
lipids p.m. tricks the one that's
currently in production and about 10%
faster than pol em Plex which is the one
that will soon be in production so
that's good it's also way smaller that
there's only about 250 lines of code
which which it just makes it a bit more
maintainable makes it a bit more easy to
understand and that's when comparisons
around $700 occurred in the PTM flex
which is pretty tricky to pick free once
when I first started looking at it so
you can see here the results if you
click on that image you can see the
stress test from the interface tree
mocks a test suite and you can see on
the left hand side is elx
and on the right hand side is the lip
eCPM flex the current one so they are
you can see that they are it is a little
bit there's a little bit faster which is
good and then so in doing that piece of
work I also created a module called if
possible which is kind of like called
possible but it's just an async iterable
that you can push things too when you if
you really need to so rather than yeah
you get the idea anyway
so what I've done I'm not locked on
anything I need to do some more testing
for it MPX it's I've actually used it in
the interruptus a built in adapter class
so that it can look like the old
interface and the the exchange files
interrupt tests pass and they are with
comparable kind of performance to was
there before which is not really
surprising because it's having to go
through a bunch of extra hoops so that's
good yes so testing for that I'm going
to send a pull request for interface
stream Luxor because I made some sorry I
miss some interface changes to that
module
which will hopefully be acceptable but
we'll send a PR and see what you think
and if I have time for the remainder of
this week I will be going back and
looking at trying to enable the HD enjoy
5 FS for reals this time and cool so
that's me any quick questions
okay alright moving on to so Dirk is not
attending he is in the wrong timezone
for this but he has been working on
adding the refs endpoint ipfs which is
really good
refs endpoint allows you to give it a
CID and it will look through the links
and give you back all of the links for
that particular CID that's good because
it's it's used we use it in in the
preload stuff because we call the
breaths endpoint to get the remote node
to puck all of those all of that data
because it needs to be able to needs to
traverse the graph to be able to get me
back the cia's
we get that will get that implemented
and then we might be able to dog food
ourselves and have a Jace I think that's
know being one of the preload nodes for
itself which would be super cool so
isn't working matt and he has been
looking at a port after connecting the
interface transport and he is looking
next Pat's async/await
into his transport and to be a TCP yet
fair enough and he's looking into GC so
JP first we'll finally get garbage
collection which would be super cool
because at the moment there's no garbage
collection so pinning is an interesting
interesting tool because it doesn't
nothing's going to get connected so
anyway let's move on it's also unable to
join the call he's being working on some
gateway improvements to Joe so PFS
streaming conditional and range request
that schools not blocked and next he is
looking to expose I KN s HTTP gateway
identify what is missing and sure that
is exactly but if you're interested then
go and ask him good that's low - let's
move on this Jacob next would you like
to show your update with us yes so in
the Lippe to be switch one of the things
we were doing is adding observed
addresses to our own peer info while
this is great for
letting people know what our external
addresses are we're not doing any
validation on that we're just slapping
every observed address on there which
gives us a very long improperly probably
very incorrect address list that people
then have to dial through so we've shut
that off
for the time being until we do a better
job of actually doing some form of
validation before telling people what
fake addresses are yeah fix a small
thing in the d8 in the lupita b-daman
and then the big thing last week was
working on DHT performance Inlet p2p we
were seeing queries of about 10 minutes
in a lot of cases and we were able to
get it down to about under a minute
a lot of this further improvements will
need to come through network latency but
major things that we did was actually
implement ESCA d'emilia in terms of more
peers more dishes showing paths in more
initial query peers instead of just
going with 3 peers to start it off so
that sped things up a lot another thing
was slow in offline timeouts right now
we don't really have any abort ability
in the switch which we're working on
with the async iterator stuff and that
creates a problem if we get a node that
has a bunch of addresses like JSP to be
switch libraries giving us a bunch of
incorrect addresses it can take us a
very long time to dial them all so we
can see like two minutes or more trying
to dial a single peer so it ends up
blocking up the queue so we added some
timeouts in there to avoid super long
time outs on that so if you are
interested in seeing more about that you
can check out that PR that's just about
ready to go I'm going to be doing some
CPU testing against some of the
configuration options there we created a
basic simulation in the DHT so that we
can run future changes and see what kind
of performance we have there so right
now it's just doing like simulation on
network latencies that are relatively
accurate to what we're seeing now
um against the live network so yeah feel
free to poke around there if you want to
I this week I'm gonna be working on
pub/sub issues namely for pull in plex
but I encountered an issue when I was
refactoring the interrupt tests or go
publishing to Jas
does not work and that's against master
so I'm going to be looking at that this
week along with the DHT CPU balanced
against JSI BFS does anybody have any
questions
cool Thank You Jacob alright moving on
next up is BMX Volker would you like to
share you update with my swear oh yeah
yeah sorry I thought I'd lost you for a
second that's fine
ta is yes sorry some of my window
manager created like 1000 error messages
somewhere okay anyway hey so my update
is I've polished the IPL D for my
cleanup PR so now there should hopefully
be really ready to be merged
so another ton of reviews but please
look good and also more interfaces
called synchronous so the only a
synchronous method now is calling a cid
because you need to calculate -
everything else is synchronous because
all our implementations only use this
synchronous version of it this should
hopefully even speed up the protocol
buffers stuff a bit on the feelings of s
so we'll see and it's almost done and
then next is I open just before the
meeting a PR to finally remove this rich
description of having packages in a jeer
linting that make it just below version
one point something needs tilde instead
of a carrot I guess it's super annoying
if you implement install and then you
need to change the package station
manually so this was like a 15 finis job
but it just probably save everyone in
this call like an hour a week or
something and next is this is more like
a costume update because I'm not really
deep into IP LD I work on a thing called
stack it's something in the Geo world so
if you're interested just click on the
link and read about it so it's not
really that interesting for the core
team but yeah that's what I will be
working on that's all I have any
questions for them ok
you
okay just see your ad on your appoint
for the allowing carrot in pre 1.0
versions it will save us time but we
know the rule so we're just like dad
forgot the rule but it's mostly
contributor experience and people who
are new to Jessup confess that this
really helps when you come along and get
your PR failed for not using a
particular upgrading or installing a new
dependency or something and not not
using the right the right character is
is really annoying and it means you have
to go go back change it push again and
wait for CI again so it's really nice to
be able to to just quickly do that and
not have to not have to worry just a
another barrier to entry to that we're
getting rid of so and I am pro that
change
all right cool it says Oh Alex you had a
question
oh yeah say it like only applies to use
the curry for pre no point one point no
Saudis told her for pre nor point one
point nor right so the changes to at the
moment it's used the tilde for
everything pre one point no and the
changes to use tilde for pre nor point
one point no alright um in short like I
think whatever NPM does like and not
because did yeah because the developer
experience is poor there what I did is I
just make it change basically that the
current behavior is the same or like the
same like so so it doesn't change
anything on the versions we wanna have I
think making it whatever NPM does is a
separate discussion so we see this one
is a backwards compatible change to
whatever we do curly
ok all right we've talked about any
issue maybe I'm misunderstanding what
that change was all right let's move on
for now and just keep the cool rolling
okay next up is Hugo would you like to
give us your update please yes hi guys
so last week I have some holidays so I
didn't do much I still managed to work a
little bit on the happiness resolve
command those peers are still not merged
hopefully I'll get back to them this
week also works on the on adding support
for the file Dom API to JSP face it she
be client and the interface
doing this found out a little bit that
we have some logic that is kind of
duplicated all around so I tried to to
extract this logic and basically arrive
at this the spot that's not I don't
actually know where to put this shared
logic I start to start to the bike
shared on slack about where to put this
shared logic and yep we all probably
make an issue or just shows the name and
make a new ribbon put stuff there so we
don't spend too much time talking about
naming and bike sharing I also fixed an
issue actually Ollie did most of the
work
I only cleaned cleaned it up a little
bit and dig into it so I better
understand the problem basically one of
my packages that transforms a pole
stream to a stream had about actually it
was but it's when I when we starts
reading we didn't we start like draining
the post frame and we didn't stop yeah
basically we didn't catch the stop
condition so I we fixed that and yeah
that's basically it I'm not blocking
anything next week hopefully finished
the firebomb API requests and continued
my endeavor on IP NS / DNS any questions
now
cool thanks listen thank you good okay
next up we have Jim how you doing Jim
good
so my update is I'm now officially part
of gsfs hey hey last week so dynamic
data and capabilities work group working
group is now an interest group so it's
still around but I guess for q3 all my
ok ours will be part of GSI PFS I'm in
the group now so I'll keep working on
the stuff I sort of planned out for q2
mostly getting your need for ipfs camp
I've been playing around with test lab I
want to try to use it for some things so
that involves a lot of Hoshi core
projects such as terraform Packer and
nomad their projects for installing
stuff into the cloud and last week also
had some discussions about what we're
going to do for the apps course which is
one of the four courses were planning
for ipfs camp just that's abroad that
apps could be a lot of things so it's
just discussions at this point what
we're going to do and for Falcon try day
I did a fun little project click on and
it makes up funny combinations of words
it sort of I'm trying to do sort of like
if you ever use Heroku and it makes up
random names for your project I'm trying
to do it
protocol labs flavor of that coming up
after you spend some more time on pure
base to get that so I can launch it
the pinners got some issues I get into
production stable place we can live more
test lab or infest camp I want to set up
for pure pad I want to set up a weekly
call where people volunteers can just
hang out sort of our office hours sort
of thing and on the project's working
group I'm doing something called
integration mini projects and trying to
find ideas for little one-week projects
it we could do ok that's my updates
what was the what was the weekly call
for pearpad
it's not project planning for pure pad I
just want to have just a friendly sort
of a almost like office hours that we're
gonna have for ipfs but just for people
had things because I think it's just a
project that will be in sort of
maintenance mode for a long period of
time but I want to sort of develop it
slowly over time Hugo Jim did you record
the ipfs camp call I don't I don't think
we did so but we have notes or something
I think
Deitrick took some notes so I'll find
those for you
after the call thanks Jim can you link
to your integration many projects in the
notes please yes and also I love this
protocol words I would someone ask me a
difficult question I'm just gonna be
like token call or fries selector Jason
Network this one gigantic skeeball
I can't exceed 1 million isn't that what
we do already pretty pretty sure that's
what we do what isn't that what we do
already that's what we do that's what I
do
ok
it's not nonsense combinations and
things but some of them sound pretty
plausible cool all right thank you Jim
and moving on is Alex next would you
like to share your update with us
sure so I've been deep in async/await
refactor land it's so good it's so good
like I've been removing like a third of
all the code bases basically they've
been working on I am yeah this is
amazing so much you know I just been
deleting the tests I mean it's great
like everything's so fast so easy to do
releases yes all the functionality is
intact so I've been yeah so I did the PR
for basically been working on NFS the
importer in the exporter so MFA's has
done I've got like enough of the
important exported working locally to do
when I first so then I went back and did
the exporter properly now I'm doing the
importer properly so the exporter PR is
in the importer props PR is going to be
in like tomorrow probably or maybe maybe
Wednesday and then I will go back and
like after those are released I can go
back and you know do the MF s release
properly and then probably submit a PR
to ipfs to bring the whole in which
would be amazing I also opened a PR on
Asia Asia to other linting rule to
require the wait keyword in functions
that have marked async I just wondering
what people's feels are don't tell me
now because will bike shed for ages but
do comment on the pier the reason is
because it's super easy to just throw
async everywhere
and when we do that we create micro
tasks that get executed out of sequence
in v8 or at least at the end of the tick
which creates a tiny amount of latency
so for really hot code paths this can
amount to the via like the v8 engine
basically doing nothing for a while
which is something the near form like
discovered in our code base when they
did all the performance analysis they
would be great to be able to follow
through on their recommendations on that
and earning the linting rule just kind
of automatically stop us from foot
gunning ourselves again anyway
so there's a P I open for that the links
in the notes go be great to have some
opinions on whether or not we should
merge that because I know Volquez and
opinions about like you know you market
interface async and it says this returns
a promise which is like stealth typing
so it should be burnt but like I do
actually yeah it's a valid point it
makes the ergonomics of the API is a bit
more a bit more nice so you know that's
those hash that out and and work out a
resolution cool yes and next week I'm
finishing the async away stuff I will
say so because because Hydra is moving
on to like some of the things I looked
at you know he's been a bit on github
and there are a bunch of like here as
the interface data store and that kind
of thing so I opened a mode and said you
know he's still interested in
maintaining this stuff and he said he
wasn't so I volunteered to maintain
these like modules that are not getting
as much love as they possibly need so
I'm gonna write so there's some
async/await stuff is outstanding on that
which will unblock the repo async/await
things so I'm gonna do a release of all
that probably tomorrow yes
you know the good pacing koi only
moves forward never backwards conquer
that's me does anyone have any questions
you go your hand is in yeah so not
actually a question but related to the
linking rules in Asia we already have a
back like a backlog of some of them like
the consul one the consular one this one
I'll try to do to bundle them all in one
release because needs me a major because
when I release that everything will like
fail in all the ripples so it's just to
make you aware all the maintainer x'
that when we do that you all need to do
some work to make all the ripples green
again the major version will be
everything change
that's good for the head of a few okay
all right thank you Alex just add on the
async/await stuff I can't remember if I
updated you all but the we are on 51% of
the modules that we said we would
convert to async/await for the the
weight endeavor so we are getting there
thank you for your for your efforts so
far it's been way off it's really good
to see the progress so thank you we have
like a few minutes left for Christine
updates so let's just quickly rattle
through that if we can Ollie you are up
first
just very quickly it's already been
mentioned on the call but there is an
office hours call for one hour before
next week's ipfs weekly call you don't
all have to come but I'm gonna run it
for a few weeks and use it as an
opportunity to answer questions from new
contributors people who are wrestling
with how best to get started with IPS so
even if you don't turn up I may be
tapping you on the shoulder if I think
you are the best person for this new
contributor to speak to I will be your
router and I might be directing people
at you if you're feeling extra
community-minded please do look on the
call thank you very much thank you
all right so Jay Chris I think we
probably not gonna have time to discuss
this as much as you'd like but maybe you
could quickly tell us what you're
curious about and we can discuss on on
the requestor issue sure yeah just well
let folks haven't met me know I'm
applying for the Jas core team technical
manager position I love the way y'all
work here so I've been in a lot of the
calls was my first time in this call
that particular issue I found looks like
it has a couple of PRS that might be
like one code review which has already
been done kind of one refinement away
from being merger bowl I was just trying
to look at places where I could lend a
hand that are you know I would love to
get into the async iterator endeavor but
that's probably more than I have time
right now so yeah if that's a place
where it would make sense for some clean
up tap and you know ping it on there and
I'll see what I can do
cool thank you and we have about a
minute left Terry would you like to
quickly hello
go yes Terry here protocool the GUI team
adopted me very exciting Thank You Allie
um
MF s tutorial has a new sequence of
lessons proposed by Ollie and myself
feel free to click if you'd like to see
it if you are building content for ipfs
camp which do you think will include a
proto school tutorial I would like to
know that you're planning by doing that
so I can start helping you early instead
of us having to rush at the end there's
a link here to open an issue and I did
confirm with the Vita Molly that it's
okay to do that in the public eye so in
the proto school repo submitted
conversation there I don't know what
I've mentioned on this column what I
haven't but there's a proto school
weekly fall on Thursday so there's a
link there if anyone who would like to
learn more or join authors chapter
organizers all welcome yep okay cool
thank you very much and we're done we're
on time and we're done and this is well
okay we should really go because it is 6
o'clock thank you very much everybody
for coming it's lovely to see your faces
again and I'll see you next week goodbye
good luck and happy idea fessing until
next time bye